'''Syllabus'''<br>
'''University of California at Berkeley, Spring 2009'''<br>
'''LAW 276.1 and INFO 235 Cyberlaw'''<br>
'''Thursdays, 3:30 p.m. – 6:30 p.m. (3 units)'''<br>
'''110 South Hall'''<br>

'''Instructor:''' Brian W. Carver (bcarver at ischool dot berkeley dot edu)<br>
207C South Hall <br>
510.643.1469 

'''Office Hours:''' Thursdays 1:30-3:30 and by appointment

'''Course Website:'''

[http://bspace.berkeley.edu/ http://bspace.berkeley.edu]

'''Grade and Attendance:'''

Final Paper: 60%<br>
Wikipedia Project: 20%<br>
Participation: 20%<br>

Each student will be required to write a paper, due at the end of the term, of approximately 25-35 pages, on a topic related to those covered during the semester. Each student will also be required to submit an outline of their proposed final paper at least one month prior to the paper due date. The outline will not be separately graded . See schedule below for exact due dates.<br>

I encourage you to discuss paper ideas with me. You may also gain some insight into choosing an appropriate topic or how to approach a seminar paper from the following:<br>
Pam Samuelson, [http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/%7Epam/papers/goodwriting.html Good Legal Writing: of Orwell and Window Panes], 46 Univ. of Pittsburgh L. Rev. 149 (1984).<br>
Heather Meeker, [http://www.aucegypt.edu/academics/dept/law/Documents/Stalking_the_Golden_Topic_H_Meeker.pdf Stalking the Golden Topic: A Guide to Locating and Selecting Topics for Legal Research Papers], 1996 Utah L. Rev. 917 (1996).<br>
Eugene Volokh, Extract from [http://www.law.ucla.edu/volokh/writing/aextract.pdf Academic Legal Writing: Law Review Articles, Student Notes, Seminar Papers, and Getting on Law Review], Foundation Press (2007).<br>

Each student will also, alone or in a small group, identify a topic/case/statute/etc related to those covered during the semester and will edit or create its respective Wikipedia entry so as to improve Wikipedia's coverage of Cyberlaw topics. Topic proposals and, for group projects, an explanation of each group member's responsibilities will be submitted and approved in advance. This assignment will be due at approximately mid-term. See schedule below for exact due dates.<br>

While weekly participation from all students is encouraged, each week a small group of students will be "on call" and bear primary responsibility for moving the discussion forward. Attendance is expected. If you need to miss all or a portion of a class, I will assume you have a good reason, so you need not detail it for me. If you like, you can simply send me an email letting me know you need to miss, but it is not necessary. If you need to miss a class for which you are on call, then you are responsible for trading days with someone.<br>

'''Textbook:''' Lemley, Menell, Merges, & Samuelson, Software and Internet Law ("SAIL") (3d ed. 2006); additional readings available online. (This textbook is also used for INFO 237 IP Law for the Information Industries, to be offered Fall 2009).

'''Prerequisites:''' None; Students from all levels (graduate/undergraduate) and schools on campus are welcome. However, this is a graduate-level course, so interested undergraduates are encouraged to meet with me before enrolling (or before the drop deadline).

'''Course Description (from the Course Catalog):''' The emergence of global digital networks, such as the Internet, and digital technologies that enhance human abilities to access, store, manipulate, and transmit vast amounts of information has brought with it a host of new legal issues that lawyers preparing to practice in the 21st century will need to understand and address. Although many are trying to "map" existing legal concepts onto problems arising in cyberspace, it is becoming increasingly evident that this strategy sometimes doesn't work. In some cases, it is necessary to go back to first principles to understand how to accomplish the purposes of existing law in digital networked environments. The course will explore specific problems in applying law to cyberspace in areas such as intellectual property, privacy, content control, and the bounds of jurisdiction. Students with familiarity with the Internet and its resources or with backgrounds in some of the substantive fields explored in this course are especially welcome, but there are no formal prerequisites. Grades for the course will be based either on a series of short papers or on a supervised term paper.

'''Course Goals:''' We will survey internet and technology law. Students will, for the most part, be introduced to these topics through reading of judicial opinions, law review articles, in-class lectures, and discussions. Students will illustrate their understanding of the material through discussions, writing assignments, and the final paper.

'''Add/Drop Policy:''' The university has determined that the last day to drop without a "W" is Feb. 20.

'''Academic Honesty:''' U.C. Berkeley's Code of Student Conduct prohibits all forms of academic misconduct including but not limited to cheating, fabrication, plagiarism, or facilitating academic dishonesty. See Policy 102.01 at [http://www.ucop.edu/ucophome/coordrev/ucpolicies/aos/uc100.html http://www.ucop.edu/ucophome/coordrev/ucpolicies/aos/uc100.html] and [http://students.berkeley.edu/uga/conductiii-vii.asp#V http://students.berkeley.edu/uga/conductiii-vii.asp#V] It is my policy to pursue the discipline of such misconduct, including, but not limited to, the entering of a grade of F in the course and a notation (or equivalent) on the student's transcript of the reason for same.

'''Resources:''' [http://dictionary.law.com/ http://dictionary.law.com/] Judges and professors use a lot of legal jargon. Here's a way to look it up.

'''Students with disabilities:''' Students with disabilities who may need accommodations for any sort of disability are invited to make an appointment to see me.

'''Special Thanks:''' to those who previously taught this course, Jason Schultz, Aaron Perzanowski, Fred von Lohmann, and Pamela Samuelson, upon whose work this syllabus is based. 
----


'''SCHEDULE:'''

(latest version always on the bSpace wiki) 


===January 15===
NO CLASS


----
===January 22 Introduction===
* Orin S. Kerr, ''[http://volokh.com/files/howtoread2007version.pdf How to Read a Legal Opinion]'', 11 Green Bag 2d 51 (2007).
* John Perry Barlow, ''[http://www.cs.mu.oz.au/%7Ezs/decl.html A Declaration of Independence of Cyberspace]'' (1996).
* Lawrence Lessig, ''[http://cyber.law.harvard.edu/works/lessig/finalhls.pdf The Law of the Horse]'', 113 Harv. L. Rev. 501 (1999).


----
===January 29 Personal Jurisdiction for Online Activities and International Jurisdiction===
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/F3/130/130.F3d.414.96-17087.html Cybersell, Inc. v. Cybersell, Inc.]'', 130 F.3d 414 (9th Cir. 1997). '''SAIL 569-577'''.
* ''[http://euro.ecom.cmu.edu/program/law/08-732/Jurisdiction/Zippo%20Mfr_%20Co.pdf Zippo Mfg. Co. v. Zippo Dot Com, Inc.]'', 952 F. Supp. 1119 (W.D. Pa. 1997). '''SAIL 578-586'''.
* ''[http://www.cdt.org/speech/international/20001120yahoofrance.pdf League Against Racism and Antisemitism v. Yahoo! Inc. ]'', County Court of Paris (Nov. 11, 2000).
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/F3/433/433.F3d.1199.01-17424.html Yahoo Inc. v. La Ligue Contre Le Racisme et L'antisemitisme]'', 433 F.3d 1199 (9th Cir. 2006) (''en banc''). '''SAIL 605-617'''.
* ''[http://www.kentlaw.edu/perritt/courses/civpro/Dow%20Jones%20&%20Company%20Inc_%20v%20Gutnick%20%5B2002%5D%20HCA%2056%20%2810%20December%202002%29.htm Dow Jones v. Gutnick]'', HCA 56 para 15 (10 Dec. 2002) (High Ct. Australia). '''SAIL 617-628'''.
* Simson Garfinkel, ''[http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/8.07/haven_pr.html Welcome to Sealand. Now Bugger Off]'', Wired Magazine (July 2000).

Optional Readings: [https://bspace.berkeley.edu/portal/tool/202d1213-aee3-403e-9c17-ddf7607a5675?pageName=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab%2Fmoreonjurisdiction&action=view&panel=Main&realm=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab MoreOnJurisdiction]


----
===February 5 Indecent Speech on the Internet===
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/US/521/521.US.844.96-511.html Reno v. ACLU]'', 521 U.S. 844 (1997). '''SAIL 869-884'''.
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/US/542/542.US.656.03-218.html Ashcroft v. ACLU]'', 542 U.S. 656 (2004). '''SAIL 886-894'''.
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/US/539/539.US.194.02-361.html United States v. American Library Association]'', 539 U.S. 194 (2003). '''SAIL 894-904'''.
* ''[http://w2.eff.org/legal/cases/Nitke_v_Ashcroft/nitke_v_ashcroft_ruling.pdf Nitke v. Gonzales]'', 413 F. Supp. 2d 262 (S.D.N.Y. 2005).
* ''[http://www.ca6.uscourts.gov/opinions.pdf/07a0430p-06.pdf Connection Distributing Co. v. Keisler]'', 505 F.3d 545 (6th Cir. 2007) (reargued ''en banc'' on Sep. 10, 2008 and opinion pending).

Optional Readings: [https://bspace.berkeley.edu/portal/tool/202d1213-aee3-403e-9c17-ddf7607a5675?pageName=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab%2Fmoreonindecentspeech&action=view&panel=Main&realm=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab MoreOnIndecentSpeech]


----
===February 11 OPTIONAL FIELD TRIP===
Oral argument before the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in ''[http://op.bna.com/pl.nsf/r?Open=dapn-7lws4g Satterfield v. Simon & Schuster]'', 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 46325 (N.D. Cal. June 26, 2007). 9:00 a.m. in San Francisco.THE JAMES R. BROWNING COURTHOUSE95 7th Street San Francisco, CA 94103 The appellate briefs of each party are available in the Resources section of bSpace.


----
===February 12 Immunity for Internet Intermediaries===
* [http://www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode/47/230.html 47 U.S.C. § 230].
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/F3/129/129.F3d.327.97-1523.html Zeran v. America OnLine, Inc.]'', 129 F.3d 327 (4th Cir. 1997). '''SAIL 859-865'''.
* ''[http://www.techlawjournal.com/courts/drudge/80423opin.htm Blumenthal v. Drudge]'', 992 F.Supp. 44 (D.D.C. 1998). '''SAIL 865-869'''.
* ''[http://w2.eff.org/legal/cases/Barrett_v_Rosenthal/ruling.pdf Barrett v. Rosenthal]'', 40 Cal. 4th 33 (2006).
* ''[http://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/datastore/opinions/2008/04/02/0456916.pdf Fair Housing Council of San Fernando Valley v. Roommates.com, LLC]'', 521 F.3d 1157 (9th Cir. 2008) (''en banc'').
* ''Goddard v. Google, Inc.'', C 08-2738 JF (PVT), 2008 WL 5245490, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 101890 (N.D. Cal. Dec. 17, 2008). (in bSpace Resources).

Optional Readings: [https://bspace.berkeley.edu/portal/tool/202d1213-aee3-403e-9c17-ddf7607a5675?pageName=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab%2Fmoreonintermediaryimmunity&action=view&panel=Main&realm=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab MoreOnIntermediaryImmunity]


----
===February 19 Liability for Posting Information Obtained by Others===
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/US/532/532.US.514.99-1687.html Bartnicki v. Vopper]'', 532 U.S. 514 (2001). '''SAIL 946-956'''.
* ''[http://w2.eff.org/IP/Video/DVDCCA_case/20021125_pavlovich_opinion.pdf Pavlovich v. Superior Court]'', 29 Cal. 4th 262 (2002).
* ''[http://w2.eff.org/IP/Video/DVDCCA_case/S102588_bunner_decision.pdf DVD CCA v. Bunner]'', 31 Cal. 4th 864 (Cal. 2003).
* ''[http://www.eff.org/IP/Video/DVDCCA_case/20040227_Decision.pdf DVD CCA v. Bunner]'', 116 Cal. App. 4th 241 (Cal. Ct. App. 2004).
* ''[http://www.eff.org/files/filenode/Apple_v_Does/H028579.pdf O’Grady v. Apple]'', 139 Cal. App. 4th 1423 (Cal. Ct. App. 2006).
* ''[http://www.eff.org/cases/bank-julius-baer-co-v-wikileaks Bank Julius Baer & Co. v. Wikileaks]'', (N.D. Cal.) (2008) (read linked summary).
* '''Wikipedia Project Proposals Due'''

Optional Readings: [https://bspace.berkeley.edu/portal/tool/202d1213-aee3-403e-9c17-ddf7607a5675?pageName=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab%2Fmoreonpostinginfoobtainedbyothers&action=view&panel=Main&realm=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab MoreOnPostingInfoObtainedByOthers]


----

===February 26 Copyright Liability for Internet Intermediaries===
* ''[http://w2.eff.org/IP/P2P/MGM_v_Grokster/04-480.pdf MGM v. Grokster]'', 545 U.S. 913 (2005). '''SAIL 759-773'''.
* ''[http://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/datastore/opinions/2007/12/03/0655405.pdf Perfect 10, Inc. v. Amazon.com, Inc.]'', 508 F.3d 1146 (9th Cir. 2007).
* ''[http://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/datastore/opinions/2007/05/30/0457143.pdf Perfect 10, Inc. v. ccBill LLC]'', 488 F.3d 1102 (9th Cir. 2007).
* ''[http://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/datastore/opinions/2007/07/03/0515170.pdf Perfect 10, Inc. v. Visa Int'l Serv. Ass'n]'', 494 F.3d 788 (9th Cir. 2007).

Optional Readings: [https://bspace.berkeley.edu/portal/tool/202d1213-aee3-403e-9c17-ddf7607a5675?pageName=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab%2Fmoreonintermediarycopyrightliability&action=view&panel=Main&realm=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab MoreOnIntermediaryCopyrightLiability]


----
===March 5 Digital Rights Management===
'''ROOM CHANGE: Meet in Room 202'''
* Richard Esguerra, ''[http://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2009/01/apple-shows-us-drms-true-colors Apple Shows Us DRM's True Colors]'', EFF Deeplinks Blog (January 7th, 2009).
* Julie E. Cohen, ''[http://ssrn.com/abstract=17990 A Right to Read Anonymously: A Closer Look at "Copyright Management" in Cyberspace]'', 28 Conn. L. Rev. 981 (1996).
* Dan L. Burk and Julie E. Cohen, ''[http://ssrn.com/abstract=239731 Fair Use Infrastructure for Rights Management Systems]'', 15 Harv. J. Law & Tec 41 (2001).
* Pamela Samuelson & Jason Schultz, ''[http://ssrn.com/abstract=1058561 Digital Rights Management: Should Copyright Owners Have to Give Notice of Their Use of Technical Protection Measures?]'', 6 J. on Telecomm. & High Tech. L. 41 (2007).
* Deirdre K. Mulligan and Aaron K. Perzanowski, ''[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1072229 The Magnificence of the Disaster: Reconstructing the Sony BMG Rootkit Incident]'', 22 Berkeley Tech. L. J. 1157 (2007).
* [http://www.eff.org/files/filenode/DRM/DRMCOMMENTS_final.pdf EFF's Comments for the FTC's Town Hall on DRM] (Feb. 9, 2009).

Optional Readings: [https://bspace.berkeley.edu/portal/tool/202d1213-aee3-403e-9c17-ddf7607a5675?pageName=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab%2Fmoreondrm&action=view&panel=Main&realm=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab MoreOnDRM]


----
===March 6 (Optional)===
BCLT Security Breach Notification Laws Symposium


----
===March 12 Network Neutrality===
* [http://www.worldofends.com/ http://www.worldofends.com/] (Read 10 principles on main page of site.) 
* Ed Felten, ''[http://itpolicy.princeton.edu/pub/neutrality.pdf Nuts and Bolts of Network Neutrality]''.
* Tim Wu, ''[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=388863 Network Neutrality, Broadband Discrimination]'', 2 J. on Telecomm. & High Tech. L. 141 (2003).
* ''[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=953989 Keeping the Internet Neutral?: Tim Wu and Christopher Yoo Debate]'', 59 Fed. Comm. L.J. 575 (2007).
* Richard Clarke, ''[http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=903433 Costs of Neutral/Unmanaged IP Networks]''.
* Dept of Justice, [http://www.usdoj.gov/atr/public/comments/225767.htm In the Matter of Broadband Industry Practices (Ex Parte Filing)].

Optional Readings: [https://bspace.berkeley.edu/portal/tool/202d1213-aee3-403e-9c17-ddf7607a5675?pageName=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab%2Fmoreonnetneutrality&action=view&panel=Main&realm=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab MoreOnNetNeutrality]


----
===March 19 Online Privacy===
* Warren & Brandeis, ''[http://www.spywarewarrior.com/uiuc/w-b.htm The Right to Privacy]'', 4 Harvard L. Rev. 193 (1890).
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/F3/329/329.F3d.9.02-2138.html In re Pharmatrak, Inc. Privacy Litigation]'', 329 F.3d 9 (1st Cir. 2003). '''SAIL 905-915'''.
* ''[http://www.loundy.com/CASES/Smyth_v_Pillsbury.html Smyth v. Pillsbury Co.]'', 914 F.Supp. 97 (E.D. Pa. 1996). '''SAIL 915-918'''.
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/F3/302/302.F3d.868.99-55106.html Konop v. Hawaiian Airlines, Inc.]'', 302 F.3d 868 (9th Cir. 2002). '''SAIL 918-926'''.
* ''[http://w2.eff.org/legal/cases/US_v_Ropp/ropp_ruling_20041008.pdf United States v. Ropp]'', 347 F. Supp. 2d 831 (C.D. Cal. 2004). '''SAIL 926-933'''.
* ''[http://www.eff.org/legal/cases/US_v_Councilman/councilman_decision.pdf United States v. Councilman]'', 418 F.3d 67 (1st Cir. 2005) (''en banc'').
* '''Wikipedia Projects Due'''

Optional Readings: [https://bspace.berkeley.edu/portal/tool/202d1213-aee3-403e-9c17-ddf7607a5675?pageName=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab%2Fmoreononlineprivacy&action=view&panel=Main&realm=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab MoreOnOnlinePrivacy]


----
===March 25 OPTIONAL===
[http://www.ftc.gov/opa/2008/12/drm.shtm FTC Town Hall on DRM (in Seattle) and live webcast]


----
===March 26 SPRING BREAK NO CLASS===


----
===April 2 Fourth Amendment as Applied to Online Privacy===
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/F3/36/36.F3d.457.93-8661.html Steve Jackson Games v. United States Secret Service]'', 36 F.3d 457 (5th Cir. 1994).
* The Stored Communications Act [http://www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode/18/usc_sup_01_18_10_I_20_121.html 18 U.S.C. §§ 2701-2712].
* ''[http://www.ca6.uscourts.gov/opinions.pdf/08a0252p-06.pdf Warshak v. United States]'', 532 F.3d 521 (6th Cir. 2008) (''en banc'').
* ''[http://www.eff.org/files/filenode/att/308_order_on_mtns_to_dismiss.pdf Hepting v. AT&T]'', 439 F. Supp. 2d 974 (N.D. Cal. 2006).
* ''[http://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/datastore/opinions/2008/07/09/0650581.pdf United States v. Arnold]'', 533 F.3d 1003 (9th Cir. 2008).

Optional Readings: [https://bspace.berkeley.edu/portal/tool/202d1213-aee3-403e-9c17-ddf7607a5675?pageName=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab%2Fmoreonfourthamendmentonline&action=view&panel=Main&realm=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab MoreOnFourthAmendmentOnline]


----
===April 9 PAPER OUTLINES DUE Criminal Hacking (The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act)===
* [http://www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode/18/1030.html 18 U.S.C. §1030].
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/F2/928/928.F2d.504.90-1336.774.html United States v. Morris]'', 928 F.2d 504 (2d Cir. 1991). '''SAIL 1018-1025'''.
* ''[http://www.kentlaw.edu/faculty/rstaudt/classes/oldclasses/internetlaw/casebook/us_v_riggs1.html United States v. Riggs]'', 739 F. Supp. 414 (N.D. Ill. 1990). '''SAIL 1025-1032'''.
*Note on Civil Uses of the CFAA. '''SAIL 1035-1040'''.
* ''[http://securitylaw.info/cfaa/175_F_Supp_2d_367.pdf United States v. Ivanov]'', 175 F. Supp. 2d 367 (D. Conn. 2001). '''SAIL 1040-1047'''.
* Orin S. Kerr, ''[http://ssrn.com/abstract=399740 Cybercrime's Scope: Interpreting "Access" and "Authorization" in Computer Misuse Statutes]'', 78 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 1596 (2003).
* ''United States v. Lori Drew'', [http://blog.wired.com/27bstroke6/files/my_space_lori_drew_indictment.pdf Indictment].
* [http://www.eff.org/files/filenode/US_v_Drew/Drew_Amicus.pdf Brief of Amici Curiae Electronic Frontier Foundation., et al. in Support of Defendant's Motion to Dismiss Indictment for Failure to State an Offense and For Vagueness].

Optional Readings: [https://bspace.berkeley.edu/portal/tool/202d1213-aee3-403e-9c17-ddf7607a5675?pageName=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab%2Fmoreoncfaa&action=view&panel=Main&realm=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab MoreOnCFAA]


----
===April 16 Online Anonymous Speech and the First Amendment===
* [http://www.eff.org/files/filenode/dom_v_myspace/Motion%20AC%20filed.pdf Brief of Amicus Curiae The Electronic Frontier Foundation in Dominick v. Myspace, Inc.], (Cir. Ct. of Cook County Ill. 2008).
* ''[http://www.citmedialaw.org/sites/citmedialaw.org/files/2001-04-26%20Order.pdf Doe v. 2themart.com Inc.]'', 140 F. Supp. 2d 1088 (W.D. Wash. 2001). '''SAIL 936-941'''.
* ''[http://www.citmedialaw.org/sites/citmedialaw.org/files/2001-07-11-Decision.pdf Dendrite International, Inc. v. Doe No. 3]'', 775 A.2d 756 (N.J. Super. A.D. 2001).
* ''[http://www.citizen.org/documents/JudgeChinOpinion.pdf Sony Ent'mt Inc. v. Does]'', 326 F. Supp. 2d 556 (S.D.N.Y. 2004).
* ''[http://www.citmedialaw.org/sites/citmedialaw.org/files/2005-10-05-Decision%20Quashing%20Subpoena.pdf Doe v. Cahill]'', 884 A.2d 451 (Del. 2005).
* ''[http://www.citmedialaw.org/sites/citmedialaw.org/files/2007-11-27-Court%20of%20Appeals%20Opinion.pdf Mobilisa, Inc. v. Doe]'', 170 P.3d 712 (Ariz. Ct. App. 2007).
* ''[http://www.citmedialaw.org/sites/citmedialaw.org/files/2008-02-06-Krinsky_v._Doe_Opinion.pdf Krinsky v. Doe 6]'', 159 Cal. App. 4th 1154 (Cal. Ct. App. 2008).

Optional Readings: [https://bspace.berkeley.edu/portal/tool/202d1213-aee3-403e-9c17-ddf7607a5675?pageName=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab%2Fmoreononlineanonymousspeech&action=view&panel=Main&realm=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab MoreOnOnlineAnonymousSpeech]


----
===April 23 Spam===
* ''[http://www.tomwbell.com/NetLaw/Ch06/CompuServe.html CompuServe, Inc. v. Cyber Promotions, Inc.]'', 962 F. Supp. 1015 (S.D. Ohio 1997). '''SAIL 977-985'''.
* CAN-SPAM [http://www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode/15/usc_sup_01_15_10_103.html 15 U.S.C. §§ 7701-7713].
* ''[http://op.bna.com/pl.nsf/r?Open=dapn-7lws3v Kleffman v. Vonage Holdings Corp.]'', 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 40487 (C.D. Cal. May 22, 2007) (appellate issue certified to California Supreme Court).
* ''[http://op.bna.com/pl.nsf/r?Open=dapn-7lws4g Satterfield v. Simon & Schuster]'', 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 46325 (N.D. Cal. June 26, 2007) ([http://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/datastore/media/2009/02/11/07-16356.wma audio of 9th Cir. oral argument] on 2/11/2009 9:00 a.m. SF).
* ''[http://op.bna.com/pl.nsf/r?Open=dapn-7lwrzv Gordon v. Virtumundo]'', 2007 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 55941 (W.D. Wash., Aug. 1, 2007) (appeal argued and submitted 12/9/2008) ([http://www.spamsuite.com/webfm_send/409 audio of 9th Cir. oral argument]).
* ''[http://op.bna.com/pl.nsf/r?Open=dapn-7lws39 ASIS Internet Servs. v. Optin Global Inc.]'', 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 34959 (N.D. Cal. March 27, 2008) (All appellate briefs in as of 11/14/2008; oral arg not yet scheduled). 
* ''[http://www.courts.state.va.us/opinions/opnscvwp/1062388.pdf Jaynes v. Commonwealth]'', 276 Va. 443; 666 S.E.2d 303 (2008) (skip section on standing).

Optional Readings: [https://bspace.berkeley.edu/portal/tool/202d1213-aee3-403e-9c17-ddf7607a5675?pageName=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab%2Fmoreonspam&action=view&panel=Main&realm=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab MoreOnSpam]


----
===April 30 Virtual Property===
* ''[http://www.tomwbell.com/NetLaw/Ch06/Thrifty-Tel.html Thrifty-Tel, Inc. v. Bezenek]'', 46 Cal. App. 4th 1559 (Cal. Ct. App. 1996).
* ''[http://pub.bna.com/lw/21200.htm eBay v. Bidder's Edge]'', 100 F. Supp. 2d 1058 (N.D. Cal. 2000). '''SAIL 995-1002'''.
* ''[http://news.findlaw.com/hdocs/docs/intel/intelhamidi63003opn.pdf Intel Corp. v. Hamidi]'', 30 Cal. 4th 1342 (2003).
* ''[http://www.icann.org/registrars/register.com-verio/decision-23jan04.pdf Register.com v. Verio]'', 356 F.3d 393 (2d Cir. 2004) (facts and trespass to chattels section).
* ''[http://www.wired.com/gaming/virtualworlds/news/2006/05/70909 Second Life Land Deal Goes Sour]''.

Optional Readings: [https://bspace.berkeley.edu/portal/tool/202d1213-aee3-403e-9c17-ddf7607a5675?pageName=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab%2Fmoreonvirtualproperty&action=view&panel=Main&realm=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab MoreOnVirtualProperty]


----
===May 7 OPTIONAL for those enrolled in LAW 276.1 Free Software and Free Culture===
* Brian W. Carver, ''[http://sharealike.org/20_Berkeley_Tech_L_J_443.pdf Share and Share Alike: Understanding and Enforcing Open Source and Free Software Licenses]'', 20 Berkeley Tech. L. J. 443 (2005).
* Yochai Benkler, ''The Wealth of Networks: How Social Production Transforms Markets and Freedom'', Yale Univ. Press (2006) ([http://www.congo-education.net/wealth-of-networks/ch-03.pdf Chapter 3]).

Optional Readings: [https://bspace.berkeley.edu/portal/tool/202d1213-aee3-403e-9c17-ddf7607a5675?pageName=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab%2Fmoreonfreeculture&action=view&panel=Main&realm=%2Fsite%2Fb13e5b7c-2ff8-468c-8f61-96f1ba78ddab MoreOnFreeCulture]


----
===May 12 LAW 276.1 PAPERS DUE===


----
===May 21 INFO 235 PAPERS DUE===

