==='''Syllabus'''===
'''University of California at Berkeley, Spring 2011'''<br>
'''LAW 276.1 and INFO 235 Cyberlaw'''<br>
'''Days and Time Mondays and Wednesday 11:00 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. (3 units)'''<br>
'''Location South Hall 202'''<br>

'''Instructor:''' Brian W. Carver (bcarver at ischool dot berkeley dot edu)<br>
207C South Hall <br>
510.643.1469 

'''Office Hours:''' Mondays and Wednesdays 10:00 a.m. - 11:00 a.m. and by appointment

'''Course Websites:'''

* [http://people.ischool.berkeley.edu/~bcarver/ http://people.ischool.berkeley.edu/~bcarver/] (Main Site)
* [http://bspace.berkeley.edu/ http://bspace.berkeley.edu] (Slides or handouts used in class)

'''Grade and Attendance:'''

* Final Paper: 40%
* Wikipedia Article: 15%
* Wikipedia Reviews: 10% 
* Voxius.org Project: 20%
* Participation: 15%


Each student will be required to write a paper, due at the end of the term, of approximately 20-35 pages (5,000-8,750 words), on a topic related to those covered during the semester. Each student will also be required to submit an outline of their proposed final paper at least one month prior to the paper due date. The outline will not be separately graded . See schedule below for exact due dates. Everyone should ensure that their paper's format conforms to that described in the Paper Template handout.

Note: JD students (but not LLM students) must write a paper that exceeds 7500 words or 30 pages. This enables the course to receive the "Seminar" designation under the Law School's [http://www.law.berkeley.edu/184.htm Grading Rules and Policies] which then enables me to award a greater number of HH or H grades than would be permitted under the usual grading rules and policies. Law Students that wish to use this paper for their Writing Requirement must meet additional deadlines that are merely "suggested" for others and which are detailed on the "Paper Schedule" handout.<br>

I encourage you to discuss paper ideas with me. You may also gain some insight into choosing an appropriate topic or how to approach a seminar paper from the following:<br>
* Pam Samuelson, ''[http://www.sims.berkeley.edu/%7Epam/papers/goodwriting.html Good Legal Writing: of Orwell and Window Panes]'', 46 Univ. of Pittsburgh L. Rev. 149 (1984).<br>
* Heather Meeker, ''[http://www.aucegypt.edu/academics/dept/law/Documents/Stalking_the_Golden_Topic_H_Meeker.pdf Stalking the Golden Topic: A Guide to Locating and Selecting Topics for Legal Research Papers]'', 1996 Utah L. Rev. 917 (1996).<br>
* Eugene Volokh, Extract from ''[http://www.law.ucla.edu/volokh/writing/aextract.pdf Academic Legal Writing: Law Review Articles, Student Notes, Seminar Papers, and Getting on Law Review]'', Foundation Press (2007).
News articles, legal opinions, and scholarly articles related to the course topics can also be found on Brian's Wiki. Students may find ideas for paper topics or relevant resources on Brian's Wiki.<br>

Each student will also, alone or in a small group, identify a topic/case/statute/etc. related to those covered during the semester and will edit or create its respective Wikipedia entry so as to improve Wikipedia's coverage of Cyberlaw topics. Topic proposals and, for group projects, an explanation of each group member's responsibilities will be submitted and approved in advance. See schedule below for exact due dates. Each student will also sign up to review and edit the Wikipedia pages edited by two fellow students.<br>

Students will work in groups on a voxius.org project in which each group will create public domain audio recordings of one or more of the opinions of the Supreme Court of the United States that are assigned in this course. Details will be provided in class and at [http://voxius.org voxius.org].

While participation from all students is encouraged in each class meeting, half of the class (last names A-K or L-Z) will be "on call" and bear primary responsibility for moving the discussion forward in each class meeting. Attendance is expected. If you need to miss all or a portion of a class, I will assume you have a good reason, so you need not detail it for me. If you like, you can simply send me an email letting me know you need to miss, but it is not necessary.<br>

'''Textbook:''' Lemley, Menell, Merges, & Samuelson, Software and Internet Law ("SAIL") (3d ed. 2006); additional readings available online. (This textbook is also used for INFO 237 IP Law for the Information Industries, to be offered Fall 2011, but the 4th edition should be available by then.)

'''Prerequisites:''' None; Students from all levels (graduate/undergraduate) and schools on campus are welcome. However, this is a graduate-level course, so interested undergraduates are encouraged to meet with me before enrolling (or before the drop deadline). Undergraduates must meet additional paper deadlines that are merely "suggested" for others and which are detailed on the "Paper Schedule" handout.

'''Course Description (from the Course Catalog):''' The emergence of global digital networks, such as the Internet, and digital technologies that enhance human abilities to access, store, manipulate, and transmit vast amounts of information has brought with it a host of new legal issues that lawyers preparing to practice in the 21st century will need to understand and address. Although many are trying to "map" existing legal concepts onto problems arising in cyberspace, it is becoming increasingly evident that this strategy sometimes doesn't work. In some cases, it is necessary to go back to first principles to understand how to accomplish the purposes of existing law in digital networked environments. The course will explore specific problems in applying law to cyberspace in areas such as intellectual property, privacy, content control, and the bounds of jurisdiction. Students with familiarity with the Internet and its resources or with backgrounds in some of the substantive fields explored in this course are especially welcome, but there are no formal prerequisites. Grades for the course will be based either on a series of short papers or on a supervised term paper.

'''Course Goals:''' We will survey internet and technology law. Students will, for the most part, be introduced to these topics through reading of judicial opinions, law review articles, in-class lectures, and discussions. Students will illustrate their understanding of the material through discussions, writing assignments, and the final paper.

'''Add/Drop Policy:''' The university determines the last day to drop without a "W". Check with the Registrar.

'''Academic Honesty:''' U.C. Berkeley's Code of Student Conduct prohibits all forms of academic misconduct including but not limited to cheating, fabrication, plagiarism, or facilitating academic dishonesty. See Policy 102.01 at [http://www.ucop.edu/ucophome/coordrev/ucpolicies/aos/uc100.html http://www.ucop.edu/ucophome/coordrev/ucpolicies/aos/uc100.html] and [http://students.berkeley.edu/uga/conductiii-vii.asp#V http://students.berkeley.edu/uga/conductiii-vii.asp#V] It is my policy to pursue the discipline of such misconduct, including, but not limited to, the entering of a grade of F in the course and a notation (or equivalent) on the student's transcript of the reason for same.

'''Resources:''' [http://dictionary.law.com/ http://dictionary.law.com/] Judges and professors use a lot of legal jargon. Here's a way to look it up.

'''Students with disabilities:''' Students with disabilities who may need accommodations for any sort of disability are invited to make an appointment to see me.

'''Special Thanks:''' to those who previously taught this course, Jason Schultz, Aaron Perzanowski, Fred von Lohmann, and Pamela Samuelson, upon whose work this syllabus is based. 
----


'''SCHEDULE:'''

Note: This is a cross-listed course. Unfortunately, the Law School's Academic Calendar does not align with the Academic Calendar of main campus. Law instruction begins Mon. Jan. 10, but instruction begins on main campus on Tues. Jan. 18. Law instruction ends Tues. Apr. 26, but instruction ends on main campus on Fri. Apr. 29. We will address this by having those enrolled in LAW 276.1 meet on Wed. Jan. 12, while those enrolled in INFO 235 will not meet on that day. Those in INFO 235 will meet on Wed. Apr. 27, while those enrolled in LAW 276.1 will not meet on that day. We will cover the same material in these sessions, so all students will cover the same material, just at different times.

===Jan. 10, Mon. NO CLASS===
'''NO CLASS'''


----
===Jan. 12, Wed. (LAW 276.1 ONLY meets): Virtual Property===
'''Students in LAW 276.1 meet, those in INFO 235 do not.'''
* ''[http://pub.bna.com/lw/21200.htm eBay v. Bidder's Edge]'', 100 F. Supp. 2d 1058 (N.D. Cal. 2000). '''SAIL 995-1002'''.
* ''[http://news.findlaw.com/hdocs/docs/intel/intelhamidi63003opn.pdf Intel Corp. v. Hamidi]'', 30 Cal. 4th 1342 (2003).
Optional Readings: [[Virtual Property]]


----

===Jan. 17, Mon.: NO CLASS MLK Holiday===
'''NO CLASS. Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday.'''


----
===Jan. 19, Wed.: Introduction===
* Orin S. Kerr, ''[http://volokh.com/files/howtoread2007version.pdf How to Read a Legal Opinion]'', 11 Green Bag 2d 51 (2007).
* John Perry Barlow, ''[http://www.cs.mu.oz.au/%7Ezs/decl.html A Declaration of Independence of Cyberspace]'' (1996).
* Lawrence Lessig, ''[http://cyber.law.harvard.edu/works/lessig/finalhls.pdf The Law of the Horse]'', 113 Harv. L. Rev. 501 (1999).


----
===Jan. 24, Mon.: Personal Jurisdiction for Online Activities and International Jurisdiction===
* '''Create a Wikipedia username'''
* '''A-K on call'''
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/F3/130/130.F3d.414.96-17087.html Cybersell, Inc. v. Cybersell, Inc.]'', 130 F.3d 414 (9th Cir. 1997). '''SAIL 569-577'''.
* ''[http://euro.ecom.cmu.edu/program/law/08-732/Jurisdiction/Zippo%20Mfr_%20Co.pdf Zippo Mfg. Co. v. Zippo Dot Com, Inc.]'', 952 F. Supp. 1119 (W.D. Pa. 1997). '''SAIL 578-586'''.
* ''[http://www.kentlaw.edu/perritt/courses/civpro/Dow%20Jones%20&%20Company%20Inc_%20v%20Gutnick%20%5B2002%5D%20HCA%2056%20%2810%20December%202002%29.htm Dow Jones v. Gutnick]'', HCA 56 para 15 (10 Dec. 2002) (High Ct. Australia). '''SAIL 617-628'''.
Optional Readings: [[Personal Jurisdiction for Online Activities and International Jurisdiction]]


----
===Jan. 26, Wed.: Personal Jurisdiction for Online Activities and International Jurisdiction===
* Review Wikipedia Content guidelines and the [http://outreach.wikimedia.org/wiki/Verifiability_and_Neutral_point_of_view_(Bookshelf) instructional video on verifiability and neutral point of view].
* '''L-Z on call'''
* ''[http://people.ischool.berkeley.edu/~bcarver/mediawiki/images/e/ec/20001120yahoofrance.pdf League Against Racism and Antisemitism v. Yahoo! Inc. ]'', County Court of Paris (Nov. 11, 2000).
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/F3/433/433.F3d.1199.01-17424.html Yahoo Inc. v. La Ligue Contre Le Racisme et L'antisemitisme]'', 433 F.3d 1199 (9th Cir. 2006) (''en banc''). '''SAIL 605-617'''.
* ''[http://www.ca10.uscourts.gov/opinions/06/06-1458.pdf Dudnikov v. Chalk & Vermilion Fine Arts, Inc.]'', 514 F.3d 1063 (10th Cir. 2008).
* Simson Garfinkel, ''[http://www.wired.com/wired/archive/8.07/haven_pr.html Welcome to Sealand. Now Bugger Off]'', Wired Magazine (July 2000).
Optional Readings: [[Personal Jurisdiction for Online Activities and International Jurisdiction]]


----

===Jan. 31, Mon.: Indecent Speech and Censorship on the Internet===
* Review some existing Wikipedia articles (see [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/User:Brianwc Brian's Userspace] for a list of prior articles his students have created or substantially revised).
* '''A-K on call'''
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/US/521/521.US.844.96-511.html Reno v. ACLU]'', 521 U.S. 844 (1997). '''SAIL 869-884'''.
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/US/542/542.US.656.03-218.html Ashcroft v. ACLU]'', 542 U.S. 656 (2004). '''SAIL 886-894'''.
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/US/539/539.US.194.02-361.html United States v. American Library Association]'', 539 U.S. 194 (2003). '''SAIL 894-904'''.
Optional Readings: [[Indecent Speech and Censorship on the Internet]]


----
===Feb. 2, Wed.: Indecent Speech and Censorship on the Internet===
* '''Wikipedia Project Proposals Due'''
* '''L-Z on call'''
* ''[https://www.eff.org/files/filenode/Nitke_v_Ashcroft/nitke_v_ashcroft_ruling.pdf Nitke v. Gonzales]'', 413 F. Supp. 2d 262 (S.D.N.Y. 2005).
* ''[http://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/datastore/opinions/2009/10/28/07-10528.pdf United States v. Kilbride]'', Nos. 07-10528 & 07-10534 (9th Cir. Oct. 28, 2009) (read only up to section II. B, i.e., pages 1-23).
Optional Readings: [[Indecent Speech and Censorship on the Internet]]


----

===Feb. 7, Mon.: Immunity for Internet Intermediaries===
* Begin compiling a bibliography and studying the sources for your Wikipedia article. (Consider using your Wikipedia userspace to compile this list.)
* '''A-K on call'''
* [http://www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode/47/230.html 47 U.S.C. § 230].
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/F3/129/129.F3d.327.97-1523.html Zeran v. America OnLine, Inc.]'', 129 F.3d 327 (4th Cir. 1997). '''SAIL 859-865'''.
* ''[http://www.techlawjournal.com/courts/drudge/80423opin.htm Blumenthal v. Drudge]'', 992 F.Supp. 44 (D.D.C. 1998). '''SAIL 865-869'''.
* ''[http://w2.eff.org/legal/cases/Barrett_v_Rosenthal/ruling.pdf Barrett v. Rosenthal]'', 40 Cal. 4th 33 (2006).
Optional Readings: [[Immunity for Internet Intermediaries]]


----

===Feb. 9, Wed.: Immunity for Internet Intermediaries===
* '''Wikipedia article bibliography due.'''
* '''L-Z on call'''
* ''[http://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/datastore/opinions/2008/04/02/0456916.pdf Fair Housing Council of San Fernando Valley v. Roommates.com, LLC]'', 521 F.3d 1157 (9th Cir. 2008) (''en banc'').
* ''[http://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/datastore/opinions/2009/06/22/05-36189.pdf Barnes v. Yahoo!, Inc.]'', No. 05-36189 (9th Cir. Jun. 22, 2009).
Optional Readings: [[Immunity for Internet Intermediaries]]


----

===Feb. 14, Mon.: Liability for Distributing Information Obtained by Others===
* '''Wikipedia article outline due.'''
* ''Paper bibliography due'' for undergraduates and Law School Writing Requirement.
* '''A-K on call'''
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/US/532/532.US.514.99-1687.html Bartnicki v. Vopper]'', 532 U.S. 514 (2001). '''SAIL 946-956'''.
* ''[http://w2.eff.org/IP/Video/DVDCCA_case/20021125_pavlovich_opinion.pdf Pavlovich v. Superior Court]'', 29 Cal. 4th 262 (2002).
* ''[http://w2.eff.org/IP/Video/DVDCCA_case/S102588_bunner_decision.pdf DVD CCA v. Bunner]'', 31 Cal. 4th 864 (Cal. 2003).
* ''[http://www.eff.org/IP/Video/DVDCCA_case/20040227_Decision.pdf DVD CCA v. Bunner]'', 116 Cal. App. 4th 241 (Cal. Ct. App. 2004).
Optional Readings: [[Liability for Posting Information Obtained by Others]]


----
===Feb. 16, Wed.: Liability for Distributing Information Obtained by Others===
* '''Everyone should have signed up to Review others' Wikipedia Projects by now.'''
* '''L-Z on call'''
* ''[http://www.eff.org/files/filenode/Apple_v_Does/H028579.pdf O’Grady v. Apple]'', 139 Cal. App. 4th 1423 (Cal. Ct. App. 2006).
* ''[http://www.citmedialaw.org/sites/citmedialaw.org/files/2007-06-22-Appeals_Court_Decision.pdf Jean v. Massachusetts State Police]'', 492 F.3d 24 (1st Cir. 2007).
* ''[http://www.eff.org/cases/bank-julius-baer-co-v-wikileaks Bank Julius Baer & Co. v. Wikileaks]'', (N.D. Cal.) (2008) (read linked summary).
Optional Readings: [[Liability for Posting Information Obtained by Others]]


----

===Feb. 21, Mon.: NO CLASS President's Day===
'''NO CLASS. President's Day Holiday.'''


----
===Feb. 23, Wed.: In-class Team Meetings for Voxious.org Projects===
* '''Continue revising and improving Wikipedia article.'''
* '''A-K on call'''
* Prepratory group meetings for Voxious.org projects


----

===Feb. 28, Mon.: In-class Team Meetings for Voxious.org Projects===
* '''It is important that everyone attend this class meeting.'''
* ''Paper outline due'' for undergraduates and Law School Writing Requirement


----

===Mar. 2, Wed.: Liability for Distributing Information Obtained by Others===
* '''Wikipedia Articles Due'''
* '''L-Z on call'''
* Rodney A. Smolla, ''[http://heinonline.org/HOL/Page?collection=usjournals&handle=hein.journals/illlr96&id=1109 Information as Contraband: The First Amendment and Liability for Trafficking in Speech]'', 96 Nw. U. L. Rev. 1099 (2002).
* Jennifer K. Elsea, ''[http://www.fas.org/sgp/crs/secrecy/R41404.pdf Criminal Prohibitions on the Publication of Classified Defense Information]'', Congressional Research Service (Dec. 6, 2010).
Optional Readings: [[Liability for Posting Information Obtained by Others]]


----

===Mar. 7, Mon.: Copyright Liability for Internet Intermediaries===
* '''Wikipedia First Reviews Complete'''
* '''A-K on call'''
* ''[http://w2.eff.org/IP/P2P/MGM_v_Grokster/04-480.pdf MGM v. Grokster]'', 545 U.S. 913 (2005). '''SAIL 759-773'''.
* ''[http://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/datastore/opinions/2007/12/03/0655405.pdf Perfect 10, Inc. v. Amazon.com, Inc.]'', 508 F.3d 1146 (9th Cir. 2007).
Optional Readings: [[Copyright Liability for Internet Intermediaries]]


----

===Mar. 9, Wed.: Copyright Liability for Internet Intermediaries===
* '''Voxious.org teams have prepared the script(s) of the opinion(s)' text.'''
* '''L-Z on call'''
* ''[http://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/datastore/opinions/2007/05/30/0457143.pdf Perfect 10, Inc. v. ccBill LLC]'', 488 F.3d 1102 (9th Cir. 2007).
* ''[http://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/datastore/opinions/2007/07/03/0515170.pdf Perfect 10, Inc. v. Visa Int'l Serv. Ass'n]'', 494 F.3d 788 (9th Cir. 2007).
* ''[http://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Cartoon_Network,_LP_v._CSC_Holdings,_Inc. Cartoon Network, LP v. CSC Holdings, Inc.]'', 536 F.3d 121 (2d Cir. 2008).
Optional Readings: [[Copyright Liability for Internet Intermediaries]]


----

===Mar. 14, Mon.: Digital Rights Management and Anti-circumvention===
* '''A-K on call'''
*''[http://www.eff.org/files/filenode/RealDVD/Real%20v%20DVD-CCA%2C%20PI%20Order%20081109.pdf Realnetworks, Inc. v. DVD Copy Control Assoc., Inc.]'', 641 F. Supp. 2d 913 (N.D. Cal. Aug. 11, 2009).
*''[http://scholar.google.com/scholar_case?q=DVD+Copy+Control+Assn.,+Inc.+v.+Kaleidescape,+Inc.&hl=en&as_sdt=2,5&case=12960376580676165361&scilh=0 DVD Copy Control Assoc., Inc. v. Kaleidescape, Inc.]'', 176 Cal. App. 4th 697 (Cal. Ct. App. Aug. 12, 2009).
Optional Readings: [[Digital Rights Management and Anti-circumvention]]


----

===Mar. 16, Wed.: Network Neutrality===
* '''Wikipedia Project Second Reviews and Edits Due'''
* '''Voxious.org teams have had at least one recording session.'''
* '''L-Z on call'''
* [http://www.worldofends.com/ http://www.worldofends.com/] (Read 10 principles on main page of site.) 
* Ed Felten, ''[http://itpolicy.princeton.edu/pub/neutrality.pdf Nuts and Bolts of Network Neutrality]''.
* FCC, [http://www.publicknowledge.org/pdf/FCC-05-151A1.pdf Internet Policy Statement]'', FCC 05-151 (Sep. 23, 2005).
Optional Readings: [[Internet Governance and Network Neutrality]]


----

===Mar. 21, Mon.: NO CLASS Spring Break===
* SPRING BREAK NO CLASS


----
===Mar. 23, Wed.: NO CLASS Spring Break===
* SPRING BREAK NO CLASS


----
===Mar. 28, Mon.: Network Neutrality===
* '''A-K on call'''
* ''[http://hraunfoss.fcc.gov/edocs_public/attachmatch/FCC-08-183A1.pdf In the Matters of Formal Complaint of Free Press and Public Knowledge Against Comcast Corporation for Secretly Degrading Peer-to-Peer Applications]'', WC Docket No. 07-52 (FCC 2008).
* ''[http://courtlistener.com/cadc/oR/comcast-corporation-v-fcc/ Comcast v. FCC]'', 600 F.3d 642 (D.C. Cir. 2010).
* ''[http://s3.documentcloud.org/documents/23325/fcc-net-neutrality-order.pdf In the Matter of Preserving the Open Internet Broadband Industry Practices]'', FCC 10-201 (Dec. 23, 2010). (Skim this).
Optional Readings: [[Internet Governance and Network Neutrality]]


----
===Mar. 30, Wed.: Fourth Amendment as Applied to Online Privacy===
* '''Voxious.org teams have had at least two recording sessions.'''
* '''L-Z on call'''
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/F3/36/36.F3d.457.93-8661.html Steve Jackson Games v. United States Secret Service]'', 36 F.3d 457 (5th Cir. 1994).
* The Stored Communications Act [http://www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode/18/usc_sup_01_18_10_I_20_121.html 18 U.S.C. §§ 2701-2712].
* ''[http://courtlistener.com/ca6/VPf/united-states-v-steven-warshak/ United States v. Warshak]'', 631 F.3d 266 (6th Cir. 2010).
* ''[http://courtlistener.com/scotus/Let/ontario-v-quon/ Ontario v. Quon]'', 130 S.Ct. 2619 (2010).
Optional Readings: [[Fourth Amendment as Applied to Online Privacy ]]


----

===Apr. 4, Mon.: Fourth Amendment as Applied to Online Privacy===
* '''Voxious.org teams have completed all initial recordings.'''
* '''A-K on call'''
* ''[http://www.eff.org/files/filenode/att/308_order_on_mtns_to_dismiss.pdf Hepting v. AT&T]'', 439 F. Supp. 2d 974 (N.D. Cal. 2006) '''(pp 1-36)'''.
* ''[http://www.ca9.uscourts.gov/datastore/opinions/2008/07/09/0650581.pdf United States v. Arnold]'', 533 F.3d 1003 (9th Cir. 2008).
Optional Readings: [[Fourth Amendment as Applied to Online Privacy ]]


----

===Apr. 6, Wed.: Statutory and Common Law Claims to Protect Online Privacy===
* '''Voxious.org teams work on technical editing of audio files.'''
* '''L-Z on call'''
* Warren & Brandeis, ''[http://www.spywarewarrior.com/uiuc/w-b.htm The Right to Privacy]'', 4 Harvard L. Rev. 193 (1890).
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/F3/329/329.F3d.9.02-2138.html In re Pharmatrak, Inc. Privacy Litigation]'', 329 F.3d 9 (1st Cir. 2003). '''SAIL 905-915'''.
* ''[http://www.loundy.com/CASES/Smyth_v_Pillsbury.html Smyth v. Pillsbury Co.]'', 914 F.Supp. 97 (E.D. Pa. 1996). '''SAIL 915-918'''.
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/F3/302/302.F3d.868.99-55106.html Konop v. Hawaiian Airlines, Inc.]'', 302 F.3d 868 (9th Cir. 2002). '''SAIL 918-926'''.
Optional Readings: [[Statutory and Common Law Claims to Protect Online Privacy]]


----

===Apr. 11, Mon.: Statutory and Common Law Claims to Protect Online Privacy=== 
* '''Voxious.org teams work on technical editing of audio files.'''
* '''A-K on call'''
* ''[http://w2.eff.org/legal/cases/US_v_Ropp/ropp_ruling_20041008.pdf United States v. Ropp]'', 347 F. Supp. 2d 831 (C.D. Cal. 2004). '''SAIL 926-933'''.
* ''[http://www.eff.org/legal/cases/US_v_Councilman/councilman_decision.pdf United States v. Councilman]'', 418 F.3d 67 (1st Cir. 2005) (''en banc'').
Optional Readings: [[Statutory and Common Law Claims to Protect Online Privacy]]


----
===Apr. 13, Wed.: Civil and Criminal Hacking (The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act)=== 
* '''Voxious.org teams work on proof-listening to audio files and corrections.'''
* '''L-Z on call'''
* [http://www4.law.cornell.edu/uscode/18/1030.html 18 U.S.C. §1030].
* ''[http://bulk.resource.org/courts.gov/c/F2/928/928.F2d.504.90-1336.774.html United States v. Morris]'', 928 F.2d 504 (2d Cir. 1991). '''SAIL 1018-1025'''.
* ''[http://www.kentlaw.edu/faculty/rstaudt/classes/oldclasses/internetlaw/casebook/us_v_riggs1.html United States v. Riggs]'', 739 F. Supp. 414 (N.D. Ill. 1990). '''SAIL 1025-1032'''.
* Note on Civil Uses of the CFAA. '''SAIL 1035-1040'''.
* ''[http://securitylaw.info/cfaa/175_F_Supp_2d_367.pdf United States v. Ivanov]'', 175 F. Supp. 2d 367 (D. Conn. 2001). '''SAIL 1040-1047'''.
Optional Readings: [[Civil and Criminal Hacking (The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act)]]


----

===Apr. 18, Mon.: Civil and Criminal Hacking (The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act)===
* '''Voxious.org teams work on proof-listening to audio files and corrections.'''
* '''Paper Outlines Due'''
* ''Paper Draft for Comments Due'' for undergraduates and Law School Writing Requirement
* '''A-K on call'''
* Orin S. Kerr, ''[http://ssrn.com/abstract=399740 Cybercrime's Scope: Interpreting "Access" and "Authorization" in Computer Misuse Statutes]'', 78 N.Y.U. L. Rev. 1596 (2003).
* ''[http://www.archive.org/download/gov.uscourts.cacd.415703/gov.uscourts.cacd.415703.162.0.pdf United States v. Drew]'', No. 08-00582 (C.D. Cal. Aug. 28, 2009).
* Jennifer Granick, ''[http://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2009/09/ninth-circuit-holds-disloyal-computer-use-not-crim Ninth Circuit Holds Disloyal Computer Use Is Not A Crime]'', EFF Deeplinks (Sep. 17, 2009).
Optional Readings: [[Civil and Criminal Hacking (The Computer Fraud and Abuse Act)]]


----

===Apr. 20, Wed.: Online Anonymous Speech and the First Amendment===
* '''Voxious.org teams working on finishing touches to project.'''
* '''L-Z on call'''
* [http://www.eff.org/files/filenode/dom_v_myspace/Motion%20AC%20filed.pdf Brief of Amicus Curiae The Electronic Frontier Foundation in Dominick v. Myspace, Inc.], (Cir. Ct. of Cook County Ill. 2008).
* ''[http://www.citmedialaw.org/sites/citmedialaw.org/files/2001-04-26%20Order.pdf Doe v. 2themart.com Inc.]'', 140 F. Supp. 2d 1088 (W.D. Wash. 2001). '''SAIL 936-941'''.
* ''[http://www.citmedialaw.org/sites/citmedialaw.org/files/2001-07-11-Decision.pdf Dendrite International, Inc. v. Doe No. 3]'', 775 A.2d 756 (N.J. Super. A.D. 2001).
Optional Readings: [[Online Anonymous Speech and the First Amendment]]


----

===Apr. 25, Mon.: Online Anonymous Speech and the First Amendment===
* '''Voxious.org Completed Projects Due'''
* '''A-K on call'''
* ''[http://www.citmedialaw.org/sites/citmedialaw.org/files/2005-10-05-Decision%20Quashing%20Subpoena.pdf Doe v. Cahill]'', 884 A.2d 451 (Del. 2005).
* ''[http://www.citmedialaw.org/sites/citmedialaw.org/files/2007-11-27-Court%20of%20Appeals%20Opinion.pdf Mobilisa, Inc. v. Doe]'', 170 P.3d 712 (Ariz. Ct. App. 2007).
* ''[http://www.citmedialaw.org/sites/citmedialaw.org/files/2008-02-06-Krinsky_v._Doe_Opinion.pdf Krinsky v. Doe 6]'', 159 Cal. App. 4th 1154 (Cal. Ct. App. 2008).
Optional Readings: [[Online Anonymous Speech and the First Amendment]]


----
===Apr. 26, Tue.: Pope Gregory Make-up Class===
* Pope Gregory Make-up Class. Our usual classroom is unavailable. Brian will be available in Room 136 Boalt Hall during normal class hours, if you would like to discuss your paper.


----

===Apr. 27, Wed. (ONLY INFO 235 meets): Virtual Property===
'''Students in INFO 235 meet, those in LAW 276.1 do not.'''
* '''L-Z on call'''
* ''[http://pub.bna.com/lw/21200.htm eBay v. Bidder's Edge]'', 100 F. Supp. 2d 1058 (N.D. Cal. 2000). '''SAIL 995-1002'''.
* ''[http://news.findlaw.com/hdocs/docs/intel/intelhamidi63003opn.pdf Intel Corp. v. Hamidi]'', 30 Cal. 4th 1342 (2003).
Optional Readings: [[Virtual Property]]


----
===May 13, Fri.: PAPERS DUE===
'''Papers due by 11:59:59 p.m.'''

